Add intoduction to app enablement (#3012)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/concepts/applications.md

---
title: Application enablement
layout: bundle
weight: 40
sector:
  - getting_started
---

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides a comprehensive application enablement platform that combines no-code tools with advanced development capabilities, enabling users to build and deploy IoT solutions that are tailored to business requirements.

The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} flexible architecture supports different levels of application enablement:

- **No-code enablement:** Allows users to quickly configure existing applications and extend functionalities through available extensions without the need to write code.
- **Low-code enablement:** Enables the creation of custom logic using intuitive tools like Analytics Builder and pre-built components, making it easy for users with minimal coding experience to develop solutions.
- **Code-based enablement:** For full customization, developers have access to comprehensive SDKs to build tailored solutions, offering maximum flexibility and control.

### Self-service applications

> This includes:

Author: @rahulc8y Can we have a bit more text here? For example "For users with minimal coding experience"... Otherwise, the heading and the listing is not at all connected to the content in the first paragraph.

Reviewer: Thanks, i notice the next heading also has the similar context. I have now added the same to the 1st heading too.

- **[Digital Twin Manager](/dtm/dtm-introduction/)** - Helps users create and manage blueprints of their assets, including their properties, relationships, and connections to sensor and device data.
- **[Branding manager](/enterprise-tenant/customization/#branding)** - Enables organizations to modify logos, colors, fonts, and [domain names](/enterprise-tenant/customization/#domain-name) for a consistent, white-labeled experience that aligns with their brand identity.
- **[Extensions library](/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#extensions)** - Offers pre-built official & community-supported, open-source plugins that support adding additional functionalities in the platform that can be integrated seamlessly into applications.

### Customization & developer tools

For more advanced customization, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides comprehensive development capabilities:

- **[Web SDK](/web/introduction/)** - Provides all necessary clients and components to quickly build frontends in  {{< product-c8y-iot >}} and fully utilize the Microfrontend architecture capabilities. Developers can start with a simple UI plugin or scale up to a fully scaffolded web application.

> - **[Web Application Hosting](/web/introduction/)** - Enables secure deployment and hosting of Web SDK-based applications within the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform, with built-in support for the [extension ecosystem](/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#extensions).

Author: @rahulc8y Shouldn´t the link [Web Application Hosting] go to /standard-tenant/ecosystem/#custom-applications?

Reviewer: corrected the URL

---
title: Application enablement
layout: bundle
weight: 40
sector:
  - getting_started
---

> {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides a robust application enablement platform that allows users to develop, customize, and deploy applications efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides a comprehensive application enablement platform that combines no-code tools with advanced development capabilities, enabling users to build and deploy IoT solutions that are tailored to business requirements.
```

> The combination of tools and architectural flexibility empowers developers to fully customize and extend their {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications with ease, ensuring high performance and tailored solutions for diverse business requirements.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure what this sentence means. You could likely drop it and replace it by describing the levels of application enablement. E.g., no-code application enablement by configuring the existing applications and subscribing additional modules; low-code application enablement by developing logic in e.g. analytics builder and using building blocks there;  code application enablement by software development using the SDK.

Reviewer: Updated on this aspect: I am currently proposing the updated content. Once finalized, I will link it to the relevant topics in the documentation.

> The combination of tools and architectural flexibility empowers developers to fully customize and extend their {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications with ease, ensuring high performance and tailored solutions for diverse business requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} flexible architecture supports different levels of application enablement:

- No-code enablement: Allows users to quickly configure existing applications and extend functionalities through available extensions.
- Low-code enablement: Enables the creation of custom logic using intuitive tools like Analytics Builder and pre-built components, making development accessible to users with minimal coding experience.
- Code-based enablement: Provides comprehensive SDK access for developers to build fully customized solutions, offering maximum flexibility and control.

```

> ### Key capabilities

Reviewer 2: The title sounds wrong here. The list is the configurable applications but not the "key capabilities" (because that would mean e.g. the SDKs are not key capabilities for application enablement).

Reviewer: Thats a very valid point, i have modified the tilte now to reflect the two aspects more appropriately.

The key capabilities include:

> - **[Cockpit application](/cockpit/cockpit-introduction/)** - Offers no-code tools that enable users to create and manage applications quickly. It features a drag-and-drop interface, a pre-built [widget library](/cockpit/widgets-collection/) and [smart rules](/cockpit/smart-rules/) for creating [dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) and analytics. This allows business users to implement realtime monitoring and data visualization solutions without extensive coding knowledge.

Reviewer 2: It's good to highlight that Cockpit plays a role in application enablement, but "creating and managing applications" is maybe a bit far leaned out of the window.

> - **[Digital Twin Manager](/dtm/dtm-introduction/)** - The centralized modelling application for {{< product-c8y-iot >}} and is used to define and manage data model schemas that act as blueprints for representing assets within the platform. This is supported by dedicated [Asset APIs](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Inventory-API), allowing to access defined models, properties, and hierarchical relationships.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if there is a way to phrase this in a way that is more accessible to first-time readers.  Maybe something like "Digital Twin Manager -- Helps you create and manage blueprints of your assets, their relationships, their properties, and their connections to sensor and device data."

Reviewer: i have modified to make it more simple and also removed the reference of APIs from the line

updated one-
- **[Digital Twin Manager](/dtm/dtm-introduction/)** - Helps users create and manage blueprints of their assets, including their properties, relationships, and connections to sensor and device data.

- **[Branding manager](/enterprise-tenant/customization/#branding)** - Enables organizations to modify logos, colors, fonts, and [domain names](/enterprise-tenant/customization/#domain-name) for a consistent, white-labeled experience that aligns with their brand identity.

- **[Extensions library](/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#extensions)** - Offers pre-built official & community-supported , open-source plugins that support adding additional functionalities in the platform that can be integrated seamlessly into applications.

### Customization & extension

> For more advanced customization, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} supports:

Reviewer 2: This looks a bit unsymmetric to me. It seems the first three bullets is web development. Maybe it's web SDK, web hosting, microservice SDK, microservice hosting?

Reviewer: Thank you, I now understand this perspective better. The previous version wasn't very clear. I have modified it to be clearer and more symmetrical.

- **Micro frontend architecture & [extension ecosystem](/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#extensions)** - Enables developers to create modular extensions that integrate with any {{< product-c8y-iot >}} application. This dynamic approach allows features to be loaded at runtime, enabling the flexible and scalable extension of Web SDK-based applications.

- **[Codex](https://styleguide.cumulocity.com/apps/codex/#/)** - Offers essential tools for building applications, including UI guidelines, development resources, reusable Angular-based components, styling utilities, and helps ensuring consistency, efficiency, and streamlined development for {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications.

- **Managed microservices hosting** - Enables developers to deploy [custom backend services](/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#custom-microservices) using the [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/microservice-sdk-introduction/). This allows for efficient development and extension of business logic within a secure, scalable environment, without managing external infrastructure.

> ### Tenants concept

Reviewer 2: Odd here , remove?

---
title: Application enablement
layout: bundle
weight: 40
sector:
  - getting_started
---

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides a comprehensive application enablement platform that combines no-code tools with advanced development capabilities, enabling users to build and deploy IoT solutions that are tailored to business requirements.

The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} flexible architecture supports different levels of application enablement:

- No-code enablement: Allows users to quickly configure existing applications and extend functionalities through available extensions.
- Low-code enablement: Enables the creation of custom logic using intuitive tools like Analytics Builder and pre-built components, making development accessible to users with minimal coding experience.
- Code-based enablement: Provides comprehensive SDK access for developers to build fully customized solutions, offering maximum flexibility and control.

### Self-service applications

The key capabilities include:

> - **[Cockpit application](/cockpit/cockpit-introduction/)** - Offers no-code tools that enable users to create and manage applications quickly. It features a drag-and-drop interface, a pre-built [widget library](/cockpit/widgets-collection/) and [smart rules](/cockpit/smart-rules/) for creating [dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) and analytics. This allows business users to implement realtime monitoring and data visualization solutions without extensive coding knowledge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Cockpit application](/cockpit/cockpit-introduction/)** - Offers no-code tools that enable users to monitor and visualize IoT data quickly. It features a drag-and-drop interface, a pre-built [widget library](/cockpit/widgets-collection/) and [smart rules](/cockpit/smart-rules/) for creating [dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) and analytics. This allows business users to implement real-time monitoring and data visualization solutions without extensive coding knowledge.
```

---
title: Application enablement
layout: bundle
weight: 40
sector:
  - getting_started
---

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides a comprehensive application enablement platform that combines no-code tools with advanced development capabilities, enabling users to build and deploy IoT solutions that are tailored to business requirements.

The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} flexible architecture supports different levels of application enablement:

- No-code enablement: Allows users to quickly configure existing applications and extend functionalities through available extensions.
- Low-code enablement: Enables the creation of custom logic using intuitive tools like Analytics Builder and pre-built components, making development accessible to users with minimal coding experience.
- Code-based enablement: Provides comprehensive SDK access for developers to build fully customized solutions, offering maximum flexibility and control.

> ### Key capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Self-Service Applications
```

> ### Self-Service Applications

Author: ```suggestion
### Self-service applications
```

The key capabilities include:

- **[Cockpit application](/cockpit/cockpit-introduction/)** - Offers no-code tools that enable users to create and manage applications quickly. It features a drag-and-drop interface, a pre-built [widget library](/cockpit/widgets-collection/) and [smart rules](/cockpit/smart-rules/) for creating [dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) and analytics. This allows business users to implement realtime monitoring and data visualization solutions without extensive coding knowledge.

> 
> - **[Digital Twin Manager](/dtm/dtm-introduction/)** - The centralized modelling application for {{< product-c8y-iot >}} and is used to define and manage data model schemas that act as blueprints for representing assets within the platform. This is supported by dedicated [Asset APIs](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Inventory-API), allowing to access defined models, properties, and hierarchical relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Digital Twin Manager](/dtm/dtm-introduction/)** - helps users create and manage blueprints of their assets, including its properties, relationships, and connections to sensor and device data. 
```

- **Micro frontend architecture & [extension ecosystem](/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#extensions)** - Enables developers to create modular extensions that integrate with any {{< product-c8y-iot >}} application. This dynamic approach allows features to be loaded at runtime, enabling the flexible and scalable extension of Web SDK-based applications.

- **[Codex](https://styleguide.cumulocity.com/apps/codex/#/)** - Offers essential tools for building applications, including UI guidelines, development resources, reusable Angular-based components, styling utilities, and helps ensuring consistency, efficiency, and streamlined development for {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications.

- **Managed microservices hosting** - Enables developers to deploy [custom backend services](/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#custom-microservices) using the [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/microservice-sdk-introduction/). This allows for efficient development and extension of business logic within a secure, scalable environment, without managing external infrastructure.

> ### Tenants concept
> 
> {{< product-c8y-iot >}} includes built-in **[multi-tenancy](/concepts/tenant-hierarchy/) & [application subscription management](/enterprise-tenant/managing-tenants/#subscribing-applications)** features that allow for:
> 
> - Secure data isolation by assigning dedicated [tenants](/enterprise-tenant/managing-tenants/)
> - Customized application features for different client needs
> - Scalable service rollout across multiple customers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These capabilities, combined with {{< product-c8y-iot >}} built-in **[multi-tenancy](/concepts/tenant-hierarchy/) and [application subscription management](/enterprise-tenant/managing-tenants/#subscribing-applications)**, create a robust foundation for scalable and secure application enablement. 
```

Author: If we leave out a heading, then this text only belongs to the heading "Customization & extension" and it is located under this section. This is the reason why I added an extra heading so that the text refers to "App enablement" in general. Perhaps move this section to the introduction at the top?
